# Pupil "Research" Plugin Suite

Plugin suite for running custom Python scripts interacting with [Pupil](https://github.com/pupil-labs/pupil).

- **`pupil_interface`** is a Python module which uses `Pupil Remote` and the `IPC Backbone` feature introduced in [v0.8](https://github.com/pupil-labs/pupil/releases/tag/v0.8) to communicate remotely to Pupil applocations like `Pupil Capture` and `Pupil Service`.

- **`psychopy_pupil_utils`** is a set of PsychoPy classes which are used to visualize calibration and surface markers. The calibration markers are drawn using multiple Circle objects on top of each other. The surface markers use pre-rendered images generated by [`make_square_markers.py`](https://github.com/pupil-labs/pupil-helpers/blob/master/make_square_markers.py).

## Pupil Interface Examples
See [`example.py`](example.py) for an full example.

Initialization

```python
from pupil_interface import Communicator
try:
    interface = Communicator(address='tcp://127.0.0.1', req_port=50020)
except Exception as e:
    print '%s, the remote host might be unavailable'%e
```

Recording:

```python
interface.startRecording(session_name="Pupil Interface Recording")
# do other stuff...
interface.stopRecording()
```

Wait for specific events:

```python
interface.startCalibration()
cal_suc = 'notify.calibration.successful'
cal_stopped = 'notify.calibration.stopped'
encountered = interface.waitAnyEvent([cal_suc,cal_stopped])
if cal_suc in encountered:
    # Calibration was successful
    pass
else:
    # Calibration was not successful
    pass
```

Using callbacks:

```python
# define a simple callback
def handle_notification(topic, data):
    print topic, data

# Add callback and subscribe to `notify`
interface.addCallbackForEvents(handle_notification, ['notify'])
while True:
    # Do other stuff...
    interface.checkEvents() # Executes callback if necessary
```

## Pupil Interface API Reference

**`Communicator()`**
Simple class to interface with Pupil applications. Connects to `Pupil Remote`, asks for `SUB_PORT` and creates two `zmq_tools.Msg_Receiver` to subscribe to notifications and other data.

Args:
    - `ctx (zmq.Context,optional)`: zmq context
    - `address (str, optional)`: Remote address
    - `req_port (int, optional)`: Remote request port
    - `block_unitl_connected (boolean, optional)`: Block until connected


**`Communicator.startRecording()`**
Starts recording session.

Args:
    - `session_name (str, optional)`: Name for the recording session


**`Communicator.stopRecording()`**
Stops recording session.


**`Communicator.startCalibration()`**
Starts calibration procedure.


**`Communicator.stopCalibration()`**
Stops calibration procedure.


**`Communicator.notify()`**
Send a notification to the remote Pupil application.

Args:
    - `notification (dict)`: Notification dictionary containing at least the `subject` key.


**`Communicator.subscribe()`**
Subscribes to `topic`.
Args:
    - `topic (str)`: Subscription topic


**`Communicator.unsubscribe()`**
Unubscribes from `topic`.
Args:
    - `topic (str)`


**`Communicator.addCallbackForEvents()`**
Registers a callback for a given list of events and automatically subscribes to the events in `events`.

Args:
    - `callback (function)`: function which takes two arguments, event and data
    - `events (string list)`: list of events


**`Communicator.removeCallbackForEvents()`**
Unregisters a callback for a given list of events and automatically unsubscribes from the events in `events`.

Args:
    - `callback (function)`: function which takes two arguments, event and data
    - `events (string list)`: list of events


**`Communicator.callCallbacksForEvents()`**
Executes all registered callbacks matching `events`.

Args:
    - `events (dict)`: Dictionary with topic-data entries, e.g. returned by `pollEventsOnce()`.


**`Communicator.pollEventsOnce()`**
Used by ``checkEvents()``, `` waitAnyEvent()``, and ``waitAllEvents()`` for polling events.

Args:
    - `timeout (None, optional)`: Poll timeout

Returns:
    - `dictionary`: Contains topic-payload entries


**`Communicator.checkEvents()`**
Checks for all available events. Returns after execution of respective callbacks.

Returns:
    - `dictionary`: Returns events in a dictionary, where the key is the
        event and the value its most recent payload


**`Communicator.waitForEvents()`**
Blocks until one or all events in ``looking_for`` were encountered. Returns after execution of respective callbacks.

Args:
    - `wait_for_all (boolean)`: Specifies if all `events` need to occure before exiting.
    - `looking_for (string array)`: List of event names
    - `timeout (float, optional)`: Timeout in milliseconds.

Returns:
    - `dictionary`: Contains topic-data entries


**`Communicator.waitAnyEvent()`**
Calls `waitForEvents()` with `wait_for_all = False`.


**`Communicator.waitAllEvents()`**
Calls `waitForEvents()` with `wait_for_all = True`.
